Abstract

E-commerce is the buying and selling of good or services via the internet, and the transfer of money and data to
complete the sales. It is also known as electronic commerce or internet commerce. There are thousands of e-commerce 
websites on internet. We have developed the website which sells IT equipment like computer, laptop, printer, scanner,
CCTV and all other IT peripherals and also provides so many features like renting and servicing of that product to
user so it is very comfortable and easy to purchase to user from our website. Our website sells not only new 
products but also old/used products, refurbished products. We have given AMC (Annual Maintenance Contract) option
to user where user can select the range of years of servicing as he/she wants at very nominal cost.

Introduction
I. INTRODUCTION

Nowadays a lot of business are taking place online through e-commerce website. Online business gives you the option 
to buy the desired products from seller and the delivery agent ships the package to our home e.g.: Amazon, Flipkart 
etc.

But this is the only feature they offer. After doing some research we came to know that there is a need to do 
something more such that customers do not have to worry much about the product. The problem normally was 
the maintenance of item, buying refurbished items instead of new ones, especially for the ones who cannot afford or
for people who do not want to spend more amount on the same product. So the above mentioned problems are solved by
us here in this project where not only buying & selling is done of new products but the above mentioned problems 
are also solved here which makes it a better option for all customers including individuals, businesses & governments.

E-commerce means electronic commerce. It means dealing in goods and services through the Electronic media and internet. 
E-commerce involves carrying on a business with the help of the Internet and by using the information technology 
like Electronic Data Interchange.

A. Objectives

The main objective of the E - commerce website is to change the user experience thereby providing various options
to the user like Rental basis for products, selling refurbished products, AMC etc. The purpose of the project is
to increase the business value and also provide solutions to the user who are facing issues while buying any product
online. The website is unique from other e commerce website as it provides unique features which other e – commerce
website do not offer.

Buying and selling of products.
Giving products to customers on rental basis.
Selling refurbished products to customer who can’t afford new product.
Providing AMC to customers such that they can avail maintenance from us by paying the amount based on the time period selected.
Giving special discounts to governments and NGO’s.
II. PROBLEM DEFINITION

An E-Commerce website is a portal which is used to do business deals on a large scale on a broader network. 
Here in our project we are developing a new kind of a website wherein we are giving options to customers such as
buying, selling, renting, AMC(Annual Maintenance Charge). The customers may include individuals, businesses,
governments, etc. The product can also be given to the customers on rental basis. Now we talk about AMC,
in this service we as a company give to our customers a maintenance package on yearly basis where in the customer 
at the start of buying gets an option of paying the entire charge at once and throughout the year they can avail 
the maintenance services for free.

E-commerce is an explode in the modern business. Rather e-commerce is more than just another way to shove 
the existing business practices & methods. It is leading a complete change in traditional way of doing business.
Buying goods and services via E-Commerce allows consumers the freedom to choose when and where to shop and 
the opportunity to research the product, the seller, and any other available options. Shopping has been galvanized 
through the availability of online information.

The E - Commerce business method has a lot of benefit keeping in mind the COVID-19 scenario. As we know that due
to covid the situation in India worsened due to which lockdown and curfews were present nationwide. This led to 
a decline in profit of businesses who are operating manually or offline. But due to the grace of technology 
advancement especially in e-commerce this loss turned into profit and feeling as if there was no situation present.

III. REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS

A. Functional Requirements

The Admin can add or delete vendors and user accounts whom they feel are violating the rules.
The Admin can update the status of the product i.e. availability, tracking of shipment, change in price etc.
User can order the product according to the options available like Refurbished, Rental etc.
User can do the payment of the order by cash on delivery (COD), online payment or by purchasing it on rental basis.
B. Non – Functional Requirements

The system should be working enough with good speed.
A stable internet connection.
C. Software Configuration

The choice of technologies for developing the website plays a very important role. It gives the detailed description 
of the technologies used and software requirement specification. It helps the developer know the exact requirement
 for the system.

Language Used: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Python & Django.
Web Browser: Chrome, Mozilla FireFox.
Database: MySQL XAMPP Server.
IV. PLANNING & ESTIMATION

The e commerce website to be developed was a complex task as it contained a lot of parameters to be taken care of. 
The website contains front end, back end and database. The complete task was broken down in three stages accordingly 
as mentioned above. Firstly we developed the front end part as the user is going to use the front end panel only 
and is not concerned about the back end and data base. So a good looking front end was the main challenge.
Then we moved on to back end & consecutively to the database.

The estimated time for completing the website was around 1.5 months & the hours it was around 90-100 hours.
The website was then completed and tested from the user’s point of view to get to know the errors and bugs which
the customer might have to face while using the portal. Again the domain name which we purchased cost us 
around Rs. 600. Now for each and every details we have generalized the same in a tabular format a shown.
We have modified the Delphi method for estimation and used the same over here.



V. SYSTEM DESIGN

A. Architectural Design

The software needs the architectural design to represents the design of software. IEEE defines architectural design 
as “the process of defining a collection of hardware and software components and their interfaces to establish 
the framework for the development of a computer system.”

The architectural design for the website is as shown.



Fig.2

The above diagrams show the interaction between the system components with different entities 
(User, Seller, Admin) & how they collaborate with each other.

VII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We would like to sincerely thank our teacher and guide Prof. Deepali Narkhede without whose guidance
this project would have not been so successful. She guided us to the right path and checked minute details of
the project work and also giving suggestion. We would also like to thank our HOD Dr. Savita Sangam 
and Honorable Principal Dr P.R. Rodge who always encouraged the work of students and made sure necessary resources are available.                          

Conclusion
Finally, as we have seen the problem statement, proposed system & expected results of our projects 
we have come up with some conclusion which are as follows. 
1) The e-commerce platform will get a new beginning since the idea used is very unique which doesn’t match with that of other’s. 
2) The advanced options provided will help customers to have a variety of options in doing deals.
3) The new features such as AMC will facilitate customer with maintenance which others might have not thought also.
4) A growing number of firms in various industries,such as banking, education, commerce, and Tourism, etc. 
   have improved their services by both incorporating technologies into their service Delivery process.
   Integration of technology in services is becoming very common;however, very little academic research has been conducted to examine its influence.